1)  Various sources of Big Data?
Ans - 

Big data has got innumerable amount of sources few of them are listed below 

    1) Archives –It consists of scanned documents of the medical files, insurance files etc.
    2) Business Apps- Applications related to ERP, CRM, HR Management apllications.
    3) Public Web- 	They are weather reports, traffic situations etc. 
    4) Social Media - Facebook , Twitter etc.
    5) Media – Images, Videos  , flash , podcasts etc.
    6) Data Storage- SQL, Repositories etc.
    7) Documents- Pdf, docs , xml,etc .
    8) Machine Log Data- event logs , server logs , application logs etc.
    9) Sensor Data-  Medical Devices, Smart Electronic Devices, Modern Machinery.


2) 3 V's of Big Data?
Ans – 
    1)	Volume – Refers to large amount of data generated by the different sources.
    2)	Velocity – Refers to the speed which the volume of data is being generated. In present day situations the large amount of data is     generated at very high speeds which cannot be handled by software’s like hadoop etc. 
    3)	Variety – Refers to the different types of data being generated  such as images, videos, documents , pdf etc. 


3)Horizontal Scaling and Vertical Scaling?
Ans –

      Horizontal Scaling – Is one which Horizontal scaling means scaling out. Horizontal scalability can be achieved with the help of c         clustering, distributed file system, load – balancing. 
      Vertical Scaling-To increase the capacity if we increase resources in same logical unit/server then it is vertical scaling.
      
 4)Need and Working of Hadoop?
 Ans-
        Need of Hadoop:
     1)Stage structured data - Use Hadoop as a data staging platform for your data warehouse.
     2)Process structured data - Use Hadoop to update data in your data warehouse and/or operational systems.
     3)Archive all data - Use Hadoop to archive all your data on-premises or in the cloud.
     4)Process any data - Use Hadoop to take advantage of data that’s currently unavailable in your enterprise data warehouse ecosystem.
     5)Access any data - Use Hadoop to extend your data warehouse and keep it at the center of your organization’s data universe.
     6)Access any data -Use Hadoop as the landing platform for all data and exploit the strengths of both the data warehouse and Hadoop.

     Working of Hadoop:
     1)Hadoop is a framework developed in java for handling big data.
     2)It uses HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) for storage.
     3)Hadoop uses a programming model called MapReduce for automated distributed computing.
     4)There are various other components like Hive,Hbase,Pig etc.



